## S3


[<< IAM](/page/architect/001_iam)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Menu](/page/architect)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[EC2 >>](/page/architect/003_ec2)

### [Whitepaper](https://d0.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/Storage/AWS%20Storage%20Services%20Whitepaper-v9.pdf)

<br/>

Main features:

1. Durability (99.999999999%)
2. Availability (99.99%) 
3. Scalability
4. Reliability
5. Fast
6. Inexpensiv
7. Secure
8. Flexible Storage Management
9. Easy interface for data
10. Easy integration

Use cases:

1. Data backup
2. Data archiving
3. Disaster recovery

#### TODO: Review S3 documentation


Recap:

1. Cross-Region Replication
2. Storage classes
3. Bucket policy and access controll list
4. Events
5. Logging

### Types of Cloud Storage  
There are three types of cloud storage: Object, File, and Block. Each offers their own unique advantages.  

1. Object Storage - Applications developed in the cloud often take advantage of object storage's vast scalability and metadata characteristics. Object storage solutions like Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) are ideal for building modern applications from scratch that require scale and flexibility, and can also be used to import existing data stores for analytics, backup, or archive.
2. File Storage - Many applications need to access shared files and require a file system. This type of storage is often supported with a Network Attached Storage (NAS) server. File storage solutions like Amazon Elastic File System (EFS) are ideal for use cases like large content repositories, development environments, media stores, or user home directories.
3. Block Storage - Other enterprise applications like databases or ERP systems often require dedicated, low latency storage for each host. This is analogous to direct-attached storage (DAS) or a Storage Area Network (SAN). Block-based cloud storage solutions like Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) are provisioned with each virtual server and offer the ultra-low latency required for high performance workloads.


### Amazon S3 Data Consistency Model  
Amazon S3 provides read-after-write consistency for PUTS of new objects in your S3 bucket in all Regions with one caveat. The caveat is that if you make a HEAD or GET request to a key name before the object is created, then create the object shortly after that, a subsequent GET might not return the object due to eventual consistency.  

Amazon S3 offers eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES in all Regions.  

Updates to a single key are atomic. For example, if you PUT to an existing key, a subsequent read might return the old data or the updated data, but it never returns corrupted or partial data.  

Amazon S3 achieves high availability by replicating data across multiple servers within AWS data centers. If a PUT request is successful, your data is safely stored. However, information about the changes must replicate across Amazon S3, which can take some time, and so you might observe the following behaviors:

- A process writes a new object to Amazon S3 and immediately lists keys within its bucket. Until the change is fully propagated, the object might not appear in the list.  
- A process replaces an existing object and immediately tries to read it. Until the change is fully propagated, Amazon S3 might return the previous data.
- A process deletes an existing object and immediately tries to read it. Until the deletion is fully propagated, Amazon S3 might return the deleted data.  
- A process deletes an existing object and immediately lists keys within its bucket. Until the deletion is fully propagated, Amazon S3 might list the deleted object.  

Amazon S3 does not currently support object locking. If two PUT requests are simultaneously made to the same key, the request with the latest timestamp wins. If this is an issue, you will need to build an object-locking mechanism into your application.

Updates are key-based. There is no way to make atomic updates across keys. For example, you cannot make the update of one key dependent on the update of another key unless you design this functionality into your application.

Buckets have a similar consistency model, with the same caveats. For example, if you delete a bucket and immediately list all buckets, Amazon S3 might still appear in the list.

The following table describes the characteristics of an eventually consistent read and a consistent read.


| Eventually Consistent Read | Consistent Read                 |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| Stale reads possible       | No stale reads                  |
| Lowest read latency        | Potential higher read latency   |
| Highest read throughput    | Potential lower read throughput |


### Versioning  
Versioning is a means of keeping multiple variants of an object in the same bucket. You can use versioning to preserve, retrieve, and restore every version of every object stored in your Amazon S3 bucket. With versioning, you can easily recover from both unintended user actions and application failures.

In one bucket, for example, you can have two objects with the same key, but different version IDs, such as photo.gif (version 111111) and photo.gif (version 121212).

Versioning-enabled buckets enable you to recover objects from accidental deletion or overwrite. For example:  

- If you delete an object, instead of removing it permanently, Amazon S3 inserts a delete marker, which becomes the current object version. You can always restore the previous version. For more information, see Deleting Object Versions.
- If you overwrite an object, it results in a new object version in the bucket. You can always restore the previous version.  

Important! If you have an object expiration lifecycle policy in your non-versioned bucket and you want to maintain the same permanent delete behavior when you enable versioning, you must add a noncurrent expiration policy. The noncurrent expiration lifecycle policy will manage the deletes of the noncurrent object versions in the version-enabled bucket. (A version-enabled bucket maintains one current and zero or more noncurrent object versions.) For more information, see How Do I Create a Lifecycle Policy for an S3 Bucket? in the Amazon Simple Storage Service Console User Guide.

Buckets can be in one of three states: unversioned (the default), versioning-enabled, or versioning-suspended.

Important! Once you version-enable a bucket, it can never return to an unversioned state. You can, however, suspend versioning on that bucket.

The versioning state applies to all (never some) of the objects in that bucket. The first time you enable a bucket for versioning, objects in it are thereafter always versioned and given a unique version ID. Note the following:

- Objects stored in your bucket before you set the versioning state have a version ID of null. When you enable versioning, existing objects in your bucket do not change. What changes is how Amazon S3 handles the objects in future requests. For more information, see Managing Objects in a Versioning-Enabled Bucket.  
- The bucket owner (or any user with appropriate permissions) can suspend versioning to stop accruing object versions. When you suspend versioning, existing objects in your bucket do not change. What changes is how Amazon S3 handles objects in future requests. For more information, see Managing Objects in a Versioning-Suspended Bucket.

[<< IAM](/page/architect/001_iam)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[Menu](/page/architect)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
[EC2 >>](/page/architect/003_ec2)